1~Something we typically ignore when considering what is affecting our sleeping habits. It is not only what we are eating before bed but also how close to bedtime we are eating it that play a role in the quality of the following nights sleep.
2~Alongside the smartphone, this one is probably the most common offender for people today. Light emitted from the tablet screen is not only abnormally bright to our eyes since it tends to be the only lightsource in a dark room and very close to our faces, but it also emits a wavelength of light that our eyes are particularly sensitive to for the purposes of regulating what time of day it is
3~This one is probably a bit more subtle to most people. While it is important for us to be comfortable in our bedroom to get a good night sleep, all too often--and especially if it is cold outside--we turn our heaters to a temperature too high. The daily rhythm of our body\'s changes in core temperature follow very closely to the Circadian rhythm. Therefore, it is essential to allow the body to be in a sort of cool down phase at sleep onset so it can properly reach a temperature minimum in the middle of the night.
4~One of the most common distractions to a good nights sleep is the laptop. In addition to the light being emitted from the laptop being a cue to our brain that it is not the proper time to sleep, the laptop is particlarly problematic because it is often directly in our faces and so a much higher proportion of the screens light reaches our eyes. Moreover, using the computer is typically one of the last things we do just before going to sleep.
5~This one is pretty common. Sleeping, or trying to sleep with a TV on can be problematic for a couple of reasons.First, the TV serves as a light source, which confuses our body\'s ability to discern when to sleep. Second, the light from the TV can be especially problematic because of the specific wavelengths emitted. Our body\'s light sensor contains cells in the retina that allow the brain to figure out what time of day it is. As it happens, these cells are particularly sensitive to the same wavelengths emitted by the TV screen.
6~This one is a common case that may be pretty obvious to some. Sleeping, or trying to sleep, with any light source nearby can affect how long it takes to fall asleep, as well as when you sleep and wake. The body\'s ability to know when it should sleep is affected in-part by external cues. Among these cues, light is the strongest. Therefore, exposure to artificial light sources can throw off the body clock and lead you to having insomnia.
7~This one is a bit more interesting. New research suggests that, in addition to having a Circadian rhythm, we may also have a Lunar rhythm. That is, the moon can have an effect on our sleeping pattern. Moreover, we do not necessarily even have to be exposed to the moon for this to happen.
